Cassandra reached out to me 3 days ago (Sunday, Mar 31) to say that her&david missed me. I was ignoring/avoiding that communication in much the same way I have for all others in the friend group. While I was looking through the iocdf.org site I saw GGOC app and believe that I've seen Cassandra using this app before. I know that David has clinical depression so I guess discovering that Cassandra might have OCD it inspired me to reach out to them to discuss my circumstances. I feel like learning that I have OCD has made it a bit easier to talk to people about my situation. It feels like it gives me a way to save face since I can blame OCD instead of just admitting to being a shitty neet/no-life.

That being said. Now that I have scheduled the call I'm super anxious about it. I started the day with a lot of energy and optimism, but now that this is looming I'm way more compulsive. Frequently checking my phone. Difficulty focusing on a task. Wanting to change my environment frequently to escape the anxiety. 

I hope to discuss no only recent diagnoses, but also how I was fired while I was living with them. This would be a pretty big step since it breaches wall of separation I've put up between myself and anyone from this group since I mentioned to Gabe that I was depressed during the pandemic (and while I was still at nvidia). Also, lol just did the math and if I stayed there I'd currently have ~ 2 million in stocks (after tax). This doesn't feel great :/

Leadup to call:
    Basically right after I scheduled the call I started to feel strong anxiety. I needed something to preoccupy my mind so that I wouldn't hyperfocus on it. So I drove around town to pick up a couple bags of coffee and then went to nearby soccer field to juggle & practice both-foot shots. I tried to get home with just enought time to heat up and eat dinner, but they postponed the call by 30 min. I started to feel really anxious in the lull and Bethany helped me out by just having a conversation about my plans for upcoming Austin trip. That got me through to the scheduled time. Went outside to car for the call since I could be alone and in a small space. But they didn't respond to the "ready for call" txt until like 20 minutes later. That 20 minutes I was definitely stressed/anxious, but my response was largely an attempt at steeling myself to bear all. I was listening to some defiant fuck you vibe music to kind of keep me resolved.

Call:
    5 minutes small talk about their recent vacation (Munich, Prague, Vienna, Salzbourg). Both of us felt Vienna was least enjoyable visit in that list from past experience.
    They asked how's work going? Responded with "About that". Then opened up about anxiety/depression/ocd diagnoses. Mentioned it led to me having a hard time at work. Then mentioned that I was fired while I was living with them. David: "woah". I mentioned the depressive states (frequent 3-7 day stints of not eating/drinking/hygiene). They didn't seem to suspect that I was unemployed the whole time. 
    They were stressed about the call since they thought I was calling to tell them that I'd be moving away from the Bay Area permanently and they would lose me as a nearby/accessible friend.
    I mentioned that they're the first people in the area I've told.
    They offered that I could stay at their place as a constructive/safe place to rehab if I need it, which is obv. much appreciated.
    They said they're open to discussing anything/anytime with me. David specifically mentioned to talk to him if the drugs make me feel funny or I don't feel like they're working since he's struggled with how those have made him feel over the past 18 months.
I explained the rationale for my "midnight snacking" while I lived with them.
I mentioned that I've been a shitty friend and many of my relationships have been very one-sided except occassionally providing BBQ. While they denied that I did say that I expect to be more open/responsive with them moving forward.
They talked about playing soccer, I mentioned that I had just found a league down here.
They asked my timeline on when I'd return to Bay Area. I said that I hope to get to the point where I'm able to comfortably work on coding problems again, then start interviewing. Once I land an in-person job back in the Bay Area I'd move back.
I did mention that I told Gabe that I was depressed back in 2021, but he was not comfortable talking about it.
