Texted Travis asking to catch up. He texted and called me back instantly. He doesn't hold the lack of communication against me. He was trying to be both reassuring and relating. I mentioned that I'm not looking for reassurance, but rather just to reclaim the relationship/connection.

Discussion about some of his updates: Living on his own, recently moved from traffic patrol to crowd control after his experience working the Travis Scott concert. He's now in a teaching role where he goes around to different, smaller, police departments to train them on best practices in how to avoid similar escalation. He reminisced on how his dad always struggled with alcoholism and how he saw himself kind of developing similar interests. He started buying really expensive, allocated, bottles of whiskey/bourbon and felt like it was just a colossal waste of money. It seems some of his coworkers have similiar interests and got him into the same hobby. He talked about how he feels his fitness waning since he's eating probably more than necessary, but not increasing exercising to accommodate. He still visits his mom's house in the mornings to use her fancy blender and make breakfast. Seems nice that he's still keeping in close contact with her :).

He mentioned that "male relationships" don't need to keep constant contact to stay strong and that he feels we haven't lost anything. He's happy for me that I was able to reach out and start to face some of these insecurities. He mentioned that his brother, Austin, has been strugging with depression and he can't really see a future for himself. This makes me want to reach out to Austin and just have a chat. He displayed that he (Travis) has a stigma against taking medication, probably he got this from his parents/dad in a similar way that I had until recently. I tried to talk him down from the stigma by saying that I've seen progress with the medication and that it hasn't had any meaningful negative impact on my cognition/awareness, but rather it helps me tolerate anxiety.

