Intro

    Anatomy: Caudate Nucleus + Putamen control which "gear" the brain is in
    OCD Dx usually comes as relief to pt
    Obsession - Intrusive thoughts
    Compulsion - Behavior/urge to alleviate fear/anxiety caused by obsession
    Purpose of book = Organize thoughts/behaviors s.t. you can respond to obsessions with goal-oriented behaviors, not self-destructive ones
    
    4 R's
        Relabel - identify obsessions/compulsions for what they are
        Reattribute - assign cause of thoughts/urges as OCD
        Refocus - respons to thoughts/urges in constructive way
        Revalue - conscious/non-automatic, but relatively trivial dismissal of obsessions/compulsions and resume normal/constructive life.
    
    OCPD - me working in groups middle school - college & (possibly) at Stryker. Possible that Matt helped me get over this. "Doesn't care that uncompromising behavior annoys others"
    
    OCD = dislike the behavior, OCPD = like the behavior.

Ch 1 - Relabel
    Flooding - throwing pt in "deep end" to directly confront fears. Usually not successful.
    Pt must "fight back/show defiance" against compulsion. This sounds similar to what I felt immediately before calling David/Cassandra. Prior to OCD diagnosis I have contemplated seeking out testosterone therapy since I feel I am far more "apathetic" and have way less "fight" in me than I did before.
    Pt must leverage idea of Adam Smith's "Impartial Spectator" to rationally distinguish real from OCD anxieties.
    Boredom is biggest enemy of OCD recovery. Even if it's not the best job you qualify for, just having something to get out and be responsible for is important.
    Common for people w/ OCD to be attracted to one another. Interesting in that this could self-propagate the disorder.
    Use "ridiculous" spell from Harry Potter to trivialize the obsession.
    
    Endearment toward the compulsion leads to life spinning out of control.
    Helpful to keep diary/notes on progress.
    Relabeling - identifying & demonizing obsessive thoughts s.t. you have no urge to engage in the compulsion.

Ch 2 - Reattribute
    OCD and Parkinsons affect the striatum
    When urge to do compulsion, sit for 15min waiting period and consciously monitor anxiety level without engaging in compulsion.
    Is OCD an addiction/physical dependence? Maybe there's some drug/hormone/neurotransmitter (serotonin/dopamine?) that's released when engaging in the compulsion.
    
    Barbara - Mr.Coffee : credits pregnancy/child with helping her reprioritize to reduce stress since it could harm the baby. So her perfectionism decreased at work which actually had a positive impact on her performance and OCD tendencies. I feel like I was kind of the opposite. I was more OCPD and whenever I decided to be less stressed/more apathetic was when I let that take over and OCD started to rule my decision-making process.
    
    "Painful" is frequent word to describe refusing to give into compulsion.... looooool. This is so me.
    
    Caudate Nucleus "gate" is held open in people with OCD. Similar to how people with Parkinson's have to make conscious effort for motor control, OCD requires conscious effort to not engage in compulsion. Both are exhausting for respective parties.
    
    OCD is genetic & related to tourettes. Striatum is fucked for both, OCD gets bad signals from orbital-cortex, Tourette's gets bad signals from motor-cortex. Overactive Orbital Cortex = sensation that shit is bad/wrong more than it really is.
    
    functions:
        Orbital Cortex - error-detection. Used in pavlovian reward/punishment learning. However, active more/longer when a behavior was expected to have positive outcome, but instead had negative one.
        Cingulate Gyrus - gut-level fear/dread. Amplifies "error" detection from orbital cortex.
        Caudate Nucleus - Automatic Transmission for thinking
        Sensory-motor cortex - fine motor control
        Putamen - Automatic Transmission for movement
        Thalamus - relay/switch for senses
    
    If orbital cortex continuously "misfires" it leads pt to continuously think that something is wrong and they have to perform some action/compulsion to resolve it. Left side is especially active in the presence of the OCD trigger.
    
    Basically need to retrain new neural nets and repeat constructive behaviours/responses in order to beef up/reinforce said pathway myelin sheath (@Physio). This will simultaneously weaken the OCD circuit.
    
    Common to hate self and feel guilt/inadequacy. Important step to healing is learning to forgive oneself.**

Step 3: Refocus


